In this activity we will perform
classification in Spark is in
decision tree.
First, we will load weather
data into DataFrame and
drop unused and missing data.
We'll then,
create a categorical variable for
low humidity days and aggregate
features used to make predictions.
We will then split our data
into training and test sets.
And then create and
train the decision tree.
Finally, we will save our
predictions to a CSV file.
Let's begin, first, we'll open
the notebook called classification.
The first cell contains the classes
we need to load to run this exercise.
Let's run this.
Next we create SQL context and load
the weather data CSV into a data frame.
The second cell also prints all
the columns in this data frame.
Run this.
The third cell defines the columns
in the weather data we will use for
the decision tree classifier.
Let's run it.
We will now use the column name number.
So, let's drop that from the data frame,
df = df.drop Number.
Now, let's revolve the rows with
missing data, df = df.na.drop.
Now, let's print the number of rows and
columns in our resulting data frame,
df.count(), len(df.columns).
Next, let's create a categorical variable
to denote if the humidity is low.
We'll enter binarizer = Binarizer ().
The first argument specifies
a threshold value for the variable.
We want the categorical variable to be 1,
if the humidity is greater than 25%.
So we'll enter a threshold=24.9999.
The next argument specifies the column to
use to create the categorical variable.
We'll input,
inputCol = relative_humidity_3pm.
The final argument specifies the new
column name, outputCol = label.
Now, let's create a new data frame
with this categorical variable.
binarizeredDF = binarizer.transform df.
Let's run this.
Let's look at the first four
rows in this new data frame.
We'll run binarizedDF.select
('relative_humidity_3pm',
'label').show(4).
The relative humidity in the first row
is greater than 25% and the label is 1.
The relative humidity in the second,
third, and fourth rows are less than 25%,
and the label is 0.
Next, let's aggregate the features we will
use to make predictions into a single col,
assembler = VectorAssember( ).
The first argument is a list of
the columns to be aggregated.
inputCols=featureColumns, and
the second argument is the name
of the new column containing the
aggregated features, outputCol=features.
We can create the new
data frame by running
assembled=assembler.transform binarizedDF.
Let's run this.
Next we will split our data
set into two parts, one for
training data and one for test data.
You can do this by entering (training
Data,
testData)=assembled.randomSplit([0.8,
0.2], seed=13234).
We can see the size of the two
sets by running count,
trainingData.count(), testData.count ().
Next let's create and
train the decision tree.
We'll enter dt = DecisionTreeClassifier.
The first argument is the column we're
trying to predict, labelCol='label'.
The second argument is the name
of the column containing your
aggregated features,
featuresCol='features'.
The third argument is
the stopping criteria for
tree induction based on the maximum
depth of the tree, maxDepth=5.
The fourth argument is the stopping
criteria for tree induction based
on the minimum number of samples
in a node, minInstancesPerNode=20.
And finally, the last argument
specifies the impurity measure
used to split the nodes,
impurity="gini", let's run this.
Next, we can create a model by
training the decision tree.
We'll do this by executing
it in a pipeline.
We'll enter pipeline=Pipeline
(stages=[dt]).
We'll create them all by putting
a training data, model =
pipeline.fit trainingData.
Let's run this Now, we can make
predictions using our test data.
We'll enter predictions =
model.transform(testData).
You can look at the first 10 rows
of the prediction by running,
predictions.select('prediction', label')
show(10).
You can see in the first ten rows,
the prediction matches the label.
Now let's save our
predictions to a CSV file.
In the next Spark hands-on activity
we will evaluate the accuracy.
You can save it by running
predictions.select('prediction',
'label').write.save(path='file File:///
home/cloudera/downloads/big-data-4/predic-
tions.csv.
We'll specify the format to use Spark csv.
Format='com.databricks.spark.csv.
Finally, we'll enter header='true'.
Run this to save
the predictions to a .csv file.